README.md, before:

# Reimplementation of Chain Replication

Simple Java gRPC implementation of chain replication.

## Build System

The project is structured as a hierarchical maven module (ChainReplication) with two sub-modules: ChainClient and ChainNode. The setup includes a package specification to create single jar files for each sub-module. Note that the gRPC framework has autogenerated classes that the source files here override and interact with. These autogenerated classes will be created in the correct places by maven.

The following command will build and package the client and server into jar files on a new machine:

```shell
$ mvn clean install
$ mvn package assembly:single
```

Once installed/built at least one time, re-building/packaging can be done with just the `mvn package assembly:single` command.

## Running the Servers

Once the server is built by maven into the jar file in the `ChainNode/target/` directory, it can be run with arguments that specify the chain configuration. The arguments are `port role [head] [successor] [tail]` where the port number is some integer between `[1024, 65535]` (inclusive), the role is one of `{head, center, tail}`, and the remaining arguments identify the relevant servers (in the form of `host:port`) with respect to the one being started. The following commands will configure a three-node chain run on one device with different ports for each:

```shell
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8980 head localhost:8981 localhost:8982
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8981 middle localhost:8980 localhost:8982 localhost:8982
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8982 tail localhost:8980
```

This would create a chain with one node on each of the three ports connected as `{8980 (head)} -> {8981} -> {8982 (tail)}`. This means that a client would need to communicate to `localhost:8980` for "put" requests and `localhost:8982` for "get" requests.
 
## Running the Client

The client is currently written just to interface with the system as a string store. When run as an application (i.e., `java -jar ChainClient\target\chain-client-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar`), it will just run a very basic integration test against a chain that is assumed to be running like the example commands in [Running the Servers](#Running-the-Servers). It will print `SUCCESS` if the chain returns values expected by the client.

Commit message:

basic fault tolerance implemented (master server)
large implementation update to allow detection and recovery from basic
node failure; does not handle cases of failure with requests in-flight

README.md, after:

# Reimplementation of Chain Replication

Simple Java gRPC implementation of chain replication.

## Build System

The project is structured as a hierarchical maven module (ChainReplication) with two sub-modules: ChainClient and ChainNode. The setup includes a package specification to create single jar files for each sub-module. Note that the gRPC framework has autogenerated classes that the source files here override and interact with. These autogenerated classes will be created in the correct places by maven.

The following command will build and package the client and server into jar files on a new machine:

```shell
$ mvn clean install
$ mvn package assembly:single
```

Once installed/built at least one time, re-building/packaging can be done with just the `mvn package assembly:single` command.

## Running the Servers

Once the server is built by maven into the jar file in the `ChainNode/target/` directory, it can be run with arguments that specify the chain configuration. The arguments are `port role [successor]` where the port number is some integer between `[1024, 65535]` (inclusive), the role is one of `{head, center, tail}`, and the remaining arguments identify the relevant servers (in the form of `host:port`) with respect to the one being started. The following commands will configure a three-node chain run on one device with different ports for each:

```shell
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8980 head localhost:8981
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8981 middle localhost:8982
$ java -jar ChainNode\target\chain-node-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8982 tail
```

This would create a chain with one node on each of the three ports connected as `{8980 (head)} -> {8981} -> {8982 (tail)}`. This means that a client would need to communicate to `localhost:8980` for "put" requests and `localhost:8982` for "get" requests.
 
 
## Running the Master Server

In order to detect and recover from complete-node failures, the master server must track the state of the chain. It does this with "check heartbeat" RPCs that reorganize the chain when a node stops responding. To start this service, you must provide a file that contains a list of Chain Nodes (`host:port`) in order from head to tail. An example is provided in [test_chain.txt](ChainMaster/src/main/resources/test_chain.txt) that matches the example commands in [Running the Servers](#running-the-servers). The following command will run the master server on port `8990` using this example configuration file:

```shell
$ java -jar ChainMaster\target\chain-master-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar 8990 ChainMaster\src\main\resources\test_chain.txt
```

## Running the Client

The client is currently written just to interface with the system as a string store. When run as an application (i.e., `java -jar ChainClient\target\chain-client-dev-jar-with-dependencies.jar`), it will just run a very basic integration test against a chain that is assumed to be running like the example commands in [Running the Servers](#running-the-servers) and [Running the Master Server](#running-the-master-server). It will print `SUCCESS` if the chain returns values expected by the client.
